Before we explore how to use and configure Kafka Connect,
let's review its architecture.
Kafka Connect is an extension of the Kafka project and is built in Scala and Java.
Because it's built on the JVM,
Kafka Connect can run on most types of hardware and operating systems.
On its own, that's all Kafka Connect is, a web server.
For Kafka Connect to be able to interact with
the outside world it needs plug-ins to tell it how to do so.
When the Kafka Connect web server boots up,
it locates and loads Kafka plug-in jars.
So here, each one of these would represent a Kafka
plug-in and each one of them will be loaded as a plug-in jar.
Kafka Connect plug-ins implement the actual functionality,
it must be implemented against the connect framework API.
Because of this, all Kafka Connect plugins are written in a JVM language like Java.
Kafka Connect uses Kafka to store its configuration and track its internal state.
Just as with scheme registry and Kafka itself,
Kafka Connect can be run as a single node or as a cluster.